1.(a)
Differentiate between a business analyst and application analyst. Many businesses require the services of a system analyst. (3 Mark)<br>
Describe the different areas of employment where the systems analyst may work. (5 Mark)<br>

1.(b)
Describe what youconsider to be the **four** most imprtand skills required by a modern day system analyst.(7 Mark)<br>
The secret of effective oral and written communications is knowing your audience. What are some things you want to know about the audience when you present your proposed Information System to a company? (4 Marks)<br>

1.(c)
Explain why a commitment to enterprice recource planing (ERP) is difficult to reverse once it has been made. (6 Marks)<br>

2.(a)
Define the folowing terms: (5 Marks)
- Data
- Information
- Information System
- Information Technology

Identify the following as data or information. Explain why you made the clasification you did. (5 Marks)<br>
- A report that identifies, for the purchasing manager, parts that are low in stock.
- A custumer's record in the custumer master file.
- A report your boss must modify to be able to present statistics to his boss.
- Yorr monthly credit card invoice.
- A report that identifies, for the inventory manager, parts low in stock.

2.(b)
Identify and describe either **THREE** Business Drivers or **THREE** Technology Drivers that are influencing today's Information Systems. (8 MArks)<br>

2.(c)
Draw an Entity Relationship Diagram for the following situation. A STUDENT takes any number of SUBJECTS. The STUDENT is enrolled in a COURSE. A SUBJECT is taken by one TEACHER. Include attributes, keys, relationships and and cardinality in your diagram. (7 Marks)<br>

3.(a)
List the practicies of Extreme Programing. (10 Marks)<br>

3.(b)
Expalin how the Secure Development Life Cycle integrates with Agile methods.(8 Marks)<br>

3.(c)
Solutions Enterprice is about to begin the system development process for a new information system. The senior analyst has requested that you,a rising junior analyst and project leader, provide a one-page recommendation that outlines the selection criteria that lead you and your team to choose the appropriate development methodolagy for Solutions Enterprise's current business conditions. (7 Marks)
- The Marketing Department needs a small and simple database to assist the sales manager with sales projections for an upcoming advertising compaign.
- The advertising campaign will begin in three mounths.
- The sales manager is not familiar with the activity and has relied on a former employ to do all of the calculations weekly on a hand-held calculator for the past two years. She recenthly stated, that she will hire a temporary worker to do the calculations if the small database in not compleated on time.
- The only difficulty that mey be encoured is that the IS team does not understand how the marketing department projects sales.

4.(a)
Explain the following terms in relation to project managment: (6 Marks)
- Scope Creep
- Time Boxing
- Feasibility Checkpoint

How should a project manager react to unreasanoble demands? (2 Marks)<br>

4.(b)
The system analyst must conduct a Feasibility Study to assess a proposed project.Discuss the various feasibility test that may be used to assess the feasability of proposed system. (10 Marks)<br>
What do you consider to be the most important of these tests? Give reasons for your answer. (2 Marks)<br>
